---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

## Discussion With Gil Yehuda
I think the biggest thing that I took from listening to Gil was a  more focused definition of what open source means.
This was not necessarily because Gil gave a concrete definition. It was actually quite the opposite. 
Through the time that he spent talking to the class he made one point abundantly clear. 
That point being that open source is very much based on one's perspective and experiences. 
This was something that I had started to notice as I’ve spent more time within the open source community but Gil definitely made sure to confirm my initial thoughts on the matter. 
I feel as though we as people constantly look for a solid definition or classification for things we interact with but something like that is hard to pin down for open source. 
Gil did sure to tell us what open source WASN’T however. 
He specifically brought up a story where he had spoken to a young person getting into the open source community. 
This person then went on to over simplify open source by limiting its description to “being posted on github”. 
Gil had expressed his disappointment with this and then went on to explain how common this sentiment was. 
He had also mentioned his history with open source and how he had actually started out as someone against the idea of open source and the open source community. 
That’s why after hearing about his history, it was really interesting to listen to him talk about open source so passionately.  

## COVID Article Response
This article was a short one but was interesting. Whenever I think of medical work, I think of work within chemistry, biology etc. 
This isn’t necessarily an untrue thought but this article definitely helped to remind me that this fight against COVID is taking place at home as well.
I often forget about the tech aspects of many things. The virtual simulations that were spoken about made me hopeful for the future.
It made me hopeful because I realized that even people from home can help out without endangering themselves and others.

## Project Progress
The past two weeks we have been averting our attention more toward our project and attempting to catch up with our contributions.
The presentation we set up really did help me see exactly where we were with regards to the other groups.
My partner Denice Veluz summed up our group’s work [here](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-spr-2020/deniceysv-weekly/blob/gh-pages/_posts/2020-04-19-week10.md)  in her weekly.
However, hopefully I can add on a little with regards to my personal experience. When Denice and I had started on our issue, we first began by exploring the directory and actually finding the test that was associated with the [issue](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/issues/38329) (#38329).
We then tested the given code that was given by the person that reported the bug.
Reading the discussion on the issue it was clear what we needed to do.
After making a small change within the necessary file, we then issued our pull request and are currently awaiting review.
After checking [the issue that is associated with ours](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/pull/38330) (#38330) I realized that they are currently making a css parser that is looking to implement our changes automatically.
This unfortunately means that our contribution may be denied in the future.
However, as of the time of our pull request, the current version of their parser does not account for this mistake.
While submitting the pull request I also noticed that there was a defective link within their local setup document.
This link was to their “how to make a pull request” document.
I quickly sent in a pull request the fixed the issue and after getting checked it was recently merged. [the merged pull request](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/pull/38330)  
