---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

This week my team and I analyzed projects that would be good to contribute to. We did this by examining some of the important factors when working within one of the repositorties. Some of the more crucial aspects were the activity and how responsive the community was. We also had to check if the projects' had some of the necessary files, such as the licence file, the README and the code of conduct file. The project that my group looked at in class was Inkscape. overall the project really felt like something I would enjoy working on. The community seems extremely active and are constatly making updates. The software that they're working on is also of interest to me personally. I've worked with a lot of art software in the past and therefore this is something that I could definitely see myself looking into. The issues within the project are many and I feel like there are many ways in which I can contribute. It's mostly written in C++ so I don't feel as though I'll be out of my element. The same can go for another project that another group analyzed in class. I decide to check out this project as well because of personal interes and it had a lot of the same qualities that make a good starting project to work within. I also looked up another open source game engine named Cocos. It's README and Contributing files seemed EXTREMELY user friendly. both had very clear instructions and the readme even had a visual aid. there are also multiple ways of connecting with their community. They have forums that are accessable on their website (https://www.cocos.com/en/). There are a few thousand issues that are available to be tackled and The respond  pretty quickly. Their issue tracker was also outfited with multiple tags to use. This was very intuitive for me and I will keep this project on my radar for the future as well. 
