---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

This week was focused on the use of Git and the terminology associated with contributing and makeing changes to a repository. One thing we covered was the explanation of a repository which was a surprise to me. I definitely downplayed what a repository was. In one of my last classes, Advanced Networking and cloud, I worked within a repository with my group members. Although I had spent a good two months working on our project in one, I think it's fair to say now that I had no idea what I was doing. Before It was explained in class, I did think that a repository was just a collection of files that was shared with people in an online space. I was unaware that it was also the entire version control system as a whole. I think my thought pattern was more focused on the shared file functionality. Before we discussed what a repository really was I wasn't quite sure what need I'd have for my own clone of the repository on my personal computer or the reasons for why we would make a branch in a repository.I didn't know that the version control was something within all repositories, including the ones on your private machine. So the idea of cloning the files in a repository and modifying them on your private machine. This is because I viewed version control as something that was useful and convenient but something that was on it's own. I'm finding this concept harder to explain I as I type but I essentially viewed it as something that was convenient for the useres of the software, but not needed for something to be considered a repository. I assumed that these online repositories would naturally include some form of version control (because it's nice and safe) but not that a repository was the version control itself. therefore I was unaware that this type of convient functionality would carry over to a private computer or laptop. It was definitely an "ahaaaa!" moment for me. I'm hoping to experiment and play around with repositories a little more in the future. Right now, I'm trying to modify one of the group programs we worked on from last week so I can make my first real contrabution. The addon that my group worked was one that changed the color of the border and background of a window whenever you clicked on the tab that was added to the toolbar. I want to try and add the option to choose what color you want your new window to be by using a popup window. This would be similar to the implimentation of the "beastify" addon we worked on in class but instead of the page taking you to a picture of the animal you chose, it would take you to a new window that would have a changed border and background color depending on which color was chosen. BUT ALAS, I'm bad at Java script so I'll need to work on that before anything else.  
