---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---
## Overview: Project Evaluation 
  This week we continued evaluating projects that we might want to contribute to. 
For the first in class Evaluation my group analyzed FreeCodingCamp. 
It was an online resource for for learning how to code in a multitude of languages.
Evaluating this project was a very fun and interesting experience for sure. 
This assignment not only made me want to contribute to the projects, but also made me want to use said projects.
The hardest part of the experience for me was the observing the community and their interactions. 
Although all of the conversations are readily available on their forums and issue tracker, It was hard to judge the entire community from small chats.
This was also difficult because the analytics for some of these repositories can sometimes be hard to find.
From the projects that are on the class wiki at the moment, I find Godot to be interesting because it deals with game development.
I've been wanting to get into game development and for a while so it appeals to my own personal interest. 

## Independent Project Evaluation
Blender was personaly interesting to me but after evaluating that project I found that it wouldn't  be the best for contributing.
This was because of it's non beginner friendly issue tracker and interface. 
Their repository was difficult to move through and there was a lack of user friendly tools. 
Also, after looking over some of these issues, it was clear to me that the discussions that are being had concerning these issues and bugs aren't explained very well.

## Top 3 Picks for Term Projects
As for the projects that have caught my attention the most are Inkscape (from the 3rd week), Godot(a project from the wiki that interested me) and Cocos (a project that I analyzed on my own). 
All of these three projects have one major similarity and that's a user friendly environment. 
From evaluating these projects I've found that I really do need a system that's easy to understand and navigate.

  1.[Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/)
  
  1.[Godot](https://godotengine.org/)
  
  1.[Cocos](https://www.cocos.com/en/)

## Other Contrabutions Outisde of Class
I was only able to contribute something small for this week. I had missed the initial OpenStreetMap class and had forgotten to make a contrabution in week 4 so I was learning how to make contributions to that this week. For the future I plan to actively make at least three contribtuions to OpenStreetMap a week. There are many places in my neighborhood and that are left undocumented. Contributing has also made me wasnt to get out and explore some of the interesting locations in my area. 
