---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---


## Vicky Brasseur Response: 
The guest discussion with Vicky Brasseur was definitely one of my favorites. I feel as though she was a very real and straightforward talker and a lot of what she spoke about I related to because I’ve had first hand experience with her talking points. One of the first things she talked about was how the definition of open source is oftentimes misunderstood. I noticed that many of the speakers that we have had the pleasure of talking to in the past few weeks have had their own philosophical views on open source and how it’s impact is difficult to define. Vicky however took the view of open source from a very business consultant point of view where she focused on the specific laws of open source. She made it very clear that not valuing these rules when it came to the use of open source could cause you problems. However, the most interesting thing that she spoke about was the accessibility of open source. She talked about how open source still seems to have a large barrier to entry. She expressed how the open source community limits themselves to specific resources and how some of these resources are not very accessible to much of the public. One example that she mentioned was how there aren’t many resources devoted to helping windows users in many open source projects. I feel as though this sentiment not only exists within the open source community but the computer science and tech community as a whole. I’ve definitely experienced this before because I am primarily a windows user and have seen many recommendations by people online to switch to a linux operating system. I actually own a linux operating system as well as a virtual machine with a linux system, however, I’ve been raised on windows computers and therefore it is very much my familiar system of choice. Even looking for some windows specific fixes can be a very difficult task and therefore I can definitely understand this point and relate to it greatly. Overall I enjoyed listening to her Vicky about pushing to make open source even more open and accessible. She seemed passionate and it made what she was saying easy to believe.


## Covid Database Repository
From what I had seen it seems to be documenting a lot of information concerning COVID-19 and it’s progression. It’s a volunteer run program and even though there is no code, there also doesn’t seem to be much when it comes to how you contribute specifically. I wouldn’t probably be able to make any direct changes to the actual documents that they have. However, I believe that the way in which I could contribute would be suggesting changes and updates to their current metrics through issues and pull requests. The most astounding thing is the fact that this was all setup by volunteers, during such a small period of time. I feel as though this would be something that I can contribute to as it would be pretty simple to update their information or suggest specific changes as it is needed. 

## Federal Open Source
I was definitely a bit surprised to see that the federal government managed multiple open source projects. I think that this is a result of the way I view open source. I see it as a very monetary free way to develop. I've always seen the government as very separated from this idea. It never really occurred to me that the accessibility of open source doesn’t stop at the federal level. After checking out multiple issues and repositories I noticed that before working on any of them I’d have to first do some research behind some of the programs that are used. One this is because a lot of the issues brought up 3rd party applications that I had no experience with. One example of this was [here](https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/issues/3576). This was one issue that seemed simple enough for someone like me but still required some background info on [snyk](https://snyk.io/).  

## Contributions and Project progress
Unfortunately I haven’t had the chance to do much in terms of contributing this week. I had been focusing on multiple large assignments as well as an exam that  unfortunately stole my attention away. I have, however, decided what changes I should be looking for with regards to my project in the future. There has  recently been a [code freeze](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/issues/38308) on a lot of the web design related code within freecodecamp because they are looking to add a lot to the project. This unfortunately means that the web design related pull request that I sent in last week will most likely go unseen for now. This is upsetting but I will instead avert my attention to some of their documentation as a lot of it seems to be slightly out of date. Hopefully I will be able to update and edit it slightly.




