---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---



## Guest speaker response 
The visit from Kevin Flemming was intriguing.
I think it was interesting to hear how his organization handled open source.
It was a new perspective that I’ve never really seen before.
I think the most memorable thing that I took from listening to Kevin was when he said that many of the projects they start or use within their organization are not perfect.
When implementing these projects, they find a particular aspect that they are looking for and then they think of ways to improve them.
As mostly a consumer, I’ve always looked at projects and programs as simple tools, rather than a constant work in progress.
I think it’s very easy for us to think that there always has to be a finished product.
Being able to see this different perspective helped me to understand how other people approach open source.
There were also certain minor new things that I learned from simply listening to some of the projects that they were working on.
One was the fact the Javascript doesn’t really have any way of keeping certain aspects of their code private.
I know from C++ that without the “private” label a lot of functions and variables can be misused and cause problems.
what appealed to me most though was that they themselves had come up with an Idea to make a private label within javascript and are now looking into getting it implemented into further iterations of javascript.
I think that this really shows how our programming languages are a work in progress as well.
There are always improvements and new developments being made within all aspects of computer science and Open source is an environment that encourages this progress.

## Wikipedia Experience 
So far, my experience with Wikipedia has been challenging. I find that the most challenging part of making contributions to 
wikipedia is trying to find articles to contribute to. After looking through many articles concerning the topics that I'm interested in, I realized that many of those pages were well updated and monitored. Thus, many edits that I could make would either be incorrect or unnecessary. Eventual I found that it's easier to contribute to articles that are less active. The less active the was the more help that it needed.

## They May never tell you it's broken: Response
I actually found this article to be a very intersting read. Maxime Chevalier-Boisvert, the author of this article and the online blog, Is an experienced open source developer who came to the realization that no matter how popular your project is, you can't trust the community to find all the problems with it. Now, when first reading that statement it's easy to see it fairly self explanatory but even with the success and popularity that her open source project (Higgs) had, it was still somehow able to let a huge incompatibility error with MACOS slip through. And even after reading about that bug it was still easy for me to just simply explain it away as a bug that slipped through thae cracks. She then went on to talk about some real thought patterns when it comes to people and reporting issues. I found this part of the article grabbed my attention the most because it spoke about something more than open source. It revealed more about our psychology when in groups, even when that group is online. After reading the three reasons she laid out for people not reporting issues, I couldn't help but agree. I myself have had many of those same thoughts whenever I've run into an issue or a bug. I know that usually when I'm looking for a solution to my problem I first look for a solution that someone else found when they reported a similar bug. However, if I can't find the issue online, often times I'll just give up. I think that it is often for all the reasons she listed and it definitely opened my eyes to one of the most major and also one of the most unavoidable problems within the open source community.



## Project Progress

My group and I have now had a meeting with our professor and we’ve all decided on where we are going in terms of the project.
Unfortunately we are further behind most other groups but hopefully we can catch up and start making some contributions to our project.
After the meeting I went to the issue that I had discussed during the meeting and officially asked to work on it.
Shortly after I got the ok to start working and hopefully I can fix the issue soon.
I also wanted to make an edit to some of their instructions concerning the developer environment of freecodecamp.
I have to first create an issue so I can ask if it would be something that they feel would be beneficial to their project. I should have that issue up soon.
Then I will be free to make the changes. 


## Weekly Contributions
I edited one of my classmates' blogs and it was successfully merged.
I made a very slight grammatical change and quickly reworded some of what they wrote within  their second paragraph.
I also made two more contributions to wikipedia. The changes were made to the [Tenthredo Vespa](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tenthredo_vespa&oldid=948592340) wiki page and the [Northern & Shell](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Northern_%26_Shell&oldid=948593937) wiki page.\
I reworded some of the sentences within one and made a very minor changes to names in the other.


